I am Ramses II, the pharaoh of Egypt's golden
age, I recognized that diplomacy and an exhaustive
public relations campaign could mitigate any
military shortcomings. My celebrated building
accomplishments, including the marvels at
Karnak and Abu Simbel, reflected my vision
of a great nation. I have been regarded by
Egyptians as Ramses the Great and my 66-year
reign is considered to be the height of Egypt’s
power and glory.
My father and grandfather elevated our commoner
family to the ranks of royalty through military
prowess and securing the nation’s wealth
by opening mines and quarries and fortifying
the northern frontier against the Hittites.
I ascended to the throne when I was 14 years
old. Shortly after, the Hittites invaded Egyptian
land and took over the important trading town
of Kadesh in modern-day Syria. I led my forces
to recapture Kadesh, but I was duped by spies
into thinking the Hittites were far from the
Egyptian camp. We were on the brink of defeat
when reinforcements arrived just in the nick
of time. I won that battle but I did not win
the war.
After years of negotiation, I signed a peace
treaty with the Hittites. The first international
recorded peace treaty in written history.
A copy of the treaty was carved on a stela
in the temple of Karnak. A second copy, written
in Akkadian on a clay tablet, was discovered
in Turkey in 1906. The significance of this
peace treaty is reflected in the fact that
a replica of the tablet is on display at the
United Nations headquarters in New York.
My reign wealth is evident in my opulent building
campaign, the largest undertaken by any pharaoh.
My funerary temple, contained a massive library
of some 10000 papyrus scrolls. Many pharaohs
took my title, the great, solidifying my stature
among Egypt’s rulers. I died at the age
of 90 and was buried in a tomb in the Valley
of the Kings. I dedicated my life to forge
a powerful nation, a beacon of enlightenment
and glory that I am sure still stand with
pride and might until this day.